{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Fingering problem
\b0\fs24 \
Copyright 1996 by John Halleck \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Introduction
\b0 \
The following report was prepared by the University of Laois Computer Support Department for the governing committee.\
\

\b Background
\b0 \
Most systems have a "finger" command of some sort. This tells you if a given user is on the system or not, and information about when they were last on, and often information like where they logged in from. The command our systems came with also says whether or not they have new mail (and when they last read it). Some finger commands even tell you who they last got mail from if they have new mail. (Although this "feature" has generally been disabled on machines on this campus). Almost everybody here generally agrees that this information is more or less "public" information.\
\

\b Problem 
\b0 \
We found that one of our student machines was severely bogged down, in a manner that made it painful for the average student to use. We tracked down what was taking the system's time. A student's script was eating all the available resources of the machine. Contrary to stated policy, it was a background script (which we don't allow) that continued running 24 hours a day, whether or not the student was logged in. This script had large amounts of network bandwidth communicating with other machines and used large amounts of cpu time. Since this was a student we had had some prior problems with, we were very curious as to what the student was doing. We were afraid they were trying to crack other systems using our system. \
\
We discovered that the student was doing the finger command on his ex-girlfriend on every machine she had access to, several times a second. The result of these fingers was being compiled by the script to form a profile of when and where she was logging in, reading mail, etc. It was gathering statistics of which labs she used, and how often. He had statistics of which labs she read mail from, and what hours she kept. At that time this incident happened the system mail logs were readable by users (the system is shipped that way) and he was also searching the mail logs regularly (every 60 seconds) to see what mail had been delivered to her. He was collecting lists of which people she corresponded with, and how often she corresponded with them. \
\
We terminated his account on grounds of violating the policy against background processes. We also informed the person being fingered what was going on.\
\
\

\b GARAGE Online Auction
\b0 \
\'a9 2003 by Simon Rogerson\
\
Auction sales on the Internet were growing rapidly and were forecast to represent nearly 25% of online retail sales within a couple of years. This promising prospect led Wendy Jones to establish a new auction web site, which she called GARAGE, that was aimed at attracting young people 16 to 25 years old. Wendy believed that this age group had the greatest potential sales growth. She carefully analysed the functions and style of existing auction web sites so that she could offer an alternative. She concluded that the site must have an anarchic anti-establishment feel so that it would attract a lot of young people.\
\
The business model for GARAGE was based on several key points:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}GARAGE would receive a fee from people who wanted to list and sell items for auction. It would charge a percentage of the final sales price for completed auctions.\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}GARAGE would merely be a publisher, much like a newspaper that publishes classified advertisements, with no responsibility for transactions since it would simply provide the conduit through which auction transactions could occur.\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}GARAGE would not veto items posted for auction, but it would be marketed to ensure that posted items were of interest to the targeted age range. It was likely that some items would be controversial in the opinion of other age groups, and this was part of the marketing strategy.\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}GARAGE users would be tracked, since this would be essential for growing the business. HTML e-mail would be sent to all those accessing the site. HTML email would act like a Web page, requesting graphics and content from a Web server and counting as a "hit" on the GARAGE web site. GARAGE would be able to track how and when people responded to e-mail, note where they click, and trace follow-up actions on GARAGE pages.\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}GARAGE would set up an advice service, called GI, on the products being auctioned. This would enable potential purchasers to find out more about the products offered. Those wishing to provide "expert advice" would register with GI giving contact details and a brief description of their credentials. Information providers would pay a fee for GI registration. In return a GI expert would receive a commission for each access of information they had posted. The fee for completed sales would cover this commission.\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Five weeks ago GARAGE was launched. It was an immediate success. The design of the site and the use of street language attracted many young people. By the end of four weeks 7000 products had been sold. A typical virtual auction attracted 1000 people. There were now 250 registered experts on GI. The products offered for auction included clothes, music, books, various equipment and appliances, adult items and recreational drugs. Controversy was growing about GARAGE, but it was this which seemed to be boosting the numbers of people using the site.\
\
Last Friday it was reported in the German national press that a 19 year old man had killed a 25 year old woman. The man was inquisitive about martial arts and had come across a GARAGE auction of nunchaku sticks and throwing stars. Both were martial arts weapons. Using GI the man had found out how these weapons could be used and their relevance to martial-art culture. According to the posted credentials, the GI expert who had posted the information had been a martial arts instructor for over ten years. The man purchased four throwing stars from the GARAGE auctioneer, who was based in the USA. Eager to try out his new acquisition, he went into his back yard to practice throwing the stars using the information he had gotten from GI. The stars need careful handling because they can be thrown long distances with relative ease. This was not indicated in the GI information. The man threw one of the stars very hard. It missed the target, veered to the right and hit the main artery in the neck of a woman who was walking down a public pathway some 50 metres away. The woman collapsed and tragically died in hospital through loss of blood.\
\
On hearing the news, Wendy was sorry that the tragic accident had occurred; but she did not see how it could be blamed on GARAGE. She argued that these minor negative effects were symptomatic of the business model on which GARAGE was built. This feeling of being in a slightly risky lawless environment in which you could purchase otherwise unavailable products was what was attracting such great numbers of young people to GARAGE. Indeed she felt vindicated that her strategy was working.}