{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Q1\
(a) What is the digital divide and what areas has it traditionally focussed on?\
(b) The current focus of the digital divide is on information poverty? What is information poverty and how can it effect citizens in a developed country?\
(c )Duff (2010) has proposed the Rawls-Tawney (R-T) theory to address issues associated with the digital divide. Discuss the two principles  of R-T theory and how these contribute to institutional implications in dealing with information poverty.\
\
Q2\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 What is the relationship between ethical theories and legislation? Discuss your answer in relation to intellectual property and those whose rights may be affected by existing and proposed legislation. \
\
Q3\
Four workable ethical theories are, act utilitarianism, rule utilitarianism, Kantianism, Social Contract.  \
(a) What is meant by workable ethical theories?\
(b) Define and discuss two of the theories listed above\
(c ) Assume you were visiting a friend in hospital who asked you to make an illegal copy of a CD so that he could listen to it while recuperating. Your friend could not buy a copy for himself due to his condition. Using two ethical theories from the list above, ethically analyze this dilemma and determine whether is is ethically right or wrong to do as your friend asks.\
\
Q4\
(a) Computer law can be broadly defined in terms of general area. List and describe six of these areas\
(b) Describe four pieces of Irish legislation that have been introduced to deal with issue in computer law. You should support your discussion with examples of legal decisions that have been adjudicated on using the legislation you describe.\
}